README.md, before:

# Actix Website

## Getting Started

Building the website depends on [Hugo]. So, first make sure that you have it installed. If on macOS and using [Homebrew], run the following:

```sh
brew update
brew install hugo
```

Then, get the website running locally:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/actix/actix-website.git
cd actix-website

hugo server
```

Then visit http://localhost:1313.

## Updating diagrams

Diagrams are located under [/static/css/img/diagrams/](https://github.com/actix/actix-website/tree/master/static/img/diagrams) and built with [Mermaid CLI].

For instance to edit `connection_overview` diagram:

```sh
cd static/css/img/diagrams
vi connection_overview.mmd
# Compile diagrams:
mmdc -i connection_overview.mmd -o connection_overview.svg
```

# License

Pretty murky. Right now a massive clone of the tokio website. Will get this figured out as we go along.

<!-- LINKS -->

[hugo]: https://gohugo.io
[homebrew]: https://brew.sh
[mermaid cli]: https://github.com/mermaidjs/mermaid.cli

Commit message:

migrate to docusaurus (v2) (#266)
Co-authored-by: ibraheemdev <ibrah1440@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

# Actix Website

## Getting Started

Building the website depends on [Docusaurus], you must have `npm` or `yarn` installed. You can run the site locally with:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/actix/actix-website.git
cd actix-website
npm install  # or yarn install
npm start  # or yarn start
```

Then visit http://localhost:3000.

## Updating diagrams

Diagrams are located under [/static/img/diagrams/](https://github.com/actix/actix-website/tree/master/static/img/diagrams) and built with [Mermaid CLI][mermaid cli].

For instance to edit `connection_overview` diagram:

```sh
cd static/img/diagrams
vi connection_overview.mmd
# Compile diagrams:
mmdc -i connection_overview.mmd -o connection_overview.svg
```

# License

This site is licensed under either of

* Apache License, Version 2.0, ([LICENSE-APACHE](LICENSE-APACHE) or
  [http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0])
* MIT license ([LICENSE-MIT](LICENSE-MIT) or
  [http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT])

<!-- LINKS -->

[Docusaurus]: https://docusaurus.io/
[mermaid cli]: https://github.com/mermaidjs/mermaid.cli
