docs/shuttle.md, before:

# Hosting on Shuttle

<img width="300" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/shuttle-hq/shuttle/master/assets/logo-rectangle-transparent.png"/>

> [**Shuttle**](https://www.shuttle.rs) is a Rust-native cloud development platform that lets you deploy your Rust apps for free.

Shuttle has out of the box support for Actix, follow these steps to host your web service on Shuttle:

1. Add Shuttle dependencies to `Cargo.toml`:

```toml
[dependencies]
shuttle-actix-web = "*"
shuttle-runtime = "*"
```

2. Add the `#[shuttle_runtime::main]` annotation and update the `main` function as follows:

```rust
use actix_web::{get, web::ServiceConfig};
use shuttle_actix_web::ShuttleActixWeb;

#[shuttle_runtime::main]
async fn main() -> ShuttleActixWeb<impl FnOnce(&mut ServiceConfig) + Send + Clone + 'static> {
    let config = move |cfg: &mut ServiceConfig| {
        // set up your service here, e.g.:
        // cfg.service(hello_world);
    };

    Ok(config.into())
}
```

3. Install `cargo-shuttle`:

```bash
cargo install cargo-shuttle
```

4. Create your project on the Shuttle platform:

```bash
cargo shuttle project start
```

5. Deploy! 🚀

```bash
cargo shuttle deploy
```

You can run `cargo shuttle run` to test your application locally.

Check out the Actix Web examples [here](https://github.com/shuttle-hq/shuttle-examples/tree/main/actix-web).

Commit message:

move shuttle sample code to examples dir

docs/shuttle.md, after:

---
title: Hosting on Shuttle
---

import CodeBlock from '@site/src/components/code_block.js';

# Hosting on Shuttle

<img width="300" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/shuttle-hq/shuttle/master/assets/logo-rectangle-transparent.png"/>

> [**Shuttle**](https://www.shuttle.rs) is a Rust-native cloud development platform that lets you deploy your Rust apps for free.

Shuttle has out-of-the-box support for Actix Web. Follow these steps to host your web service on Shuttle:

1. Add Shuttle dependencies to `Cargo.toml`:

<CodeBlock example="shuttle" file="manifest" section="shuttle-deps" language="toml" />

2. Add the `#[shuttle_runtime::main]` annotation and update the `main` function as follows:

<CodeBlock example="shuttle" section="shuttle-hello-world" />

3. Install `cargo-shuttle`:

```sh
cargo install cargo-shuttle
```

4. Create your project on the Shuttle platform:

```sh
cargo shuttle project start
```

5. Deploy! 🚀

```sh
cargo shuttle deploy
```

You can run `cargo shuttle run` to test your application locally.

Check out some complete Actix Web examples [here](https://github.com/shuttle-hq/shuttle-examples/tree/main/actix-web).
